# 201112 (AzSK.ADO v.1.1.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:
* The following features have been added to the core PS module:
    * Webhook listener for control scan events: Added the ```Set-AzSKADOWebhookSettings``` command to support posting scan events to a webhook. This enables integration with arbitrary monitoring/security analytics systems (e.g., Splunk, EventGrid, etc.).
        ```Powershell
        Set-AzSKADOWebhookSettings -WebhookUrl $webhookURL
        ```
    * Integration with ADO inventory provider: Added the ability to consume inventory mapping (of pipelines to services and services to respective owners and area paths). This can be used for both service id-based scanning (using the ```-ServiceId``` flag) and for logging control failure bugs.

    * (Preview) Approved exception support in control attestation: The control attestation feature has been augmented to support a special “GRC-approved” exception for controls. This covers scenarios where controls cannot be passed due to limitations/conditions beyond the realm of application teams (e.g., a product bug). It can be triggered by using the new ```-AddException``` switch during attestation. The command expects an exception id as one of the inputs.

    * Improved security of the core scan command by supporting the ability to leverage Azure Key Vault to store personal access token (PAT) required for scan. This can be used via the flag ```-PATTokenURL``` in the scan command.

    * Auto bug logging improvements:

        * Added support to add service tree information in bugs towards readiness to surface them in Service360.
        * Added support to specify the field name where the bug description should be added using the ```-BugDescriptionField``` parameter. This is useful for projects where “Repro Steps” is not enabled in the bug template.

### Security controls update
* The following enhancements/improvements have been made to individual security controls:

    * The ADO_Build_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Access control will not be evaluated for YAML based pipelines as their token authorization scope can be controlled only by org/project admins.
    * Resolved a bug in the ADO_AgentPool_DP_Review_Inactive_Pool control which was earlier looking at the first point of usage instead of the latest usage.
    * Corrected the ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Dont_Allow_Global_Groups control to check all identities that have access to the service connection against the disallowed list.
    * Fixed the ADO_Organization_AuthN_Use_ALT_Accounts_For_Admin control so it will not result in an error if the ‘Project Collection Service Accounts’ group is empty.
    * Fixed an issue in the ADO_Build_SI_Disable_Task_Group_Edit_Permission control which was earlier flagging all task groups in the pipeline as opposed to just the ones that were broadly editable.

### Other improvements/bug fixes
* Couple of key performance improvements to checkpoint-based scans in CA/CICD mode – (a) control scan + bug summaries and results will be pushed to disk after every checkpoint as opposed to doing at the end (this reduces memory pressure due to huge accumulation of control results) and (b) disabled storage of local checkpoints on the agent, thus keeping only server-based durable checkpoints (this reduces disk activity during large scans).
* Added support for the -Force switch so that Log Analytics based monitoring solution can be installed using ```Install-AzSKADOMonitoringSolution``` without user interaction/consent if a view with the same name already exists.
* Fixed an issue whereby duplicate bugs were being logged in the specified area path when the project being scanned was different from the project corresponding to the area path.


