# 201112 (AzSK.ADO v.1.2.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:
* The following features have been added to the core PS module:
    * Continuous Assurance (CA) using Azure Functions: 

        * Added support to scan multiple projects within the same CA setup. You can either scan these individual projects with their respective org policies or with a global org policy hosted centrally using the ```-PolicyProject``` ‘<OrgName>/<ProjectName>’ flag.

        * Added the ability to read personal access token (PAT) (required for scan) stored in Azure Key Vault from CA scans. This can be leveraged via the flag ```-PATTokenURL``` in ```Install-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance``` and ```Update-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance``` cmdlets. See [here](http://aka.ms/adoscanner/ContinuousAssurance) for further steps.

        * Added support to post scan events to a webhook in ```Update-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance``` command.
            ```Powershell
            Update-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance -SubscriptionId $subId `
                                    -OrganizationName $orgName -WebhookUrl $webhookURL
            ```
        * Names of projects to scan in CA will be resolved to all projects currently in the org if ```-ProjectName *``` is used in ```Install-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance``` and ```Update-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance``` cmdlets.

        * Added support to register Azure resource providers required for CA setup if not already registered in the subscription.

    * ADO extension security/hygiene: 
        * The   ADO_Organization_SI_Review_Installed_Extensions control now supports the ```-DetailedScan``` flag to generate additional info as guidance/support to organization admins for security evaluation and cleanup of installed extensions. The additional info covers the following: list of extensions that (a) have not been updated by publishers for more than 2 years, (b) have sensitive access permissions, (c) are not production ready/in preview, (d) are developed by top publishers in marketplace, and (e) have private visibility. 
        ```Powershell
            gads -oz $org -ControlIds 'ADO_Organization_SI_Review_Installed_Extensions' -IncludeAdminControls -DetailedScan
        ``` 
    * Generating inventory mapping of shared resources: Added the ability to generate inventory mapping of shared resources like service connection, agent pool and variable groups via ```Get-AzSKADOServiceMapping``` command. These are generated using a combination of inventory mapping of pipelines and heuristics based on usage history of shared resources across pipelines.

    * Switch to new domain URL: To align with the new domain name for organizations, we have replaced the visualstudio.com domain-based APIs used in the scanner with dev.azure.com domain.

    * Log Analytics (LA) support: Added an ‘Additional info’ field in the LA events to capture important statistics around various controls – for e.g., number of trusted vs untrusted installed extensions, non-ALT accounts with admin privileges, number of guest users in the org etc.

    * Auto bug logging improvements:

        * Multiple perf improvements to auto bug logging – (a) Removed redundancy of initializing bug logger, (b) bug logging related configurations will be loaded into the memory only once for the entire scan as opposed to loading for each resource and (c) bug logger will be invoked only if there are any non-passing controls for the resource.
        * Title of the bug logged for a failing project component will also display the name of project it belongs to.
        * Resource link will be displayed in bug details

### Security controls update
* The following enhancements/improvements have been made to individual security controls:

    * New controls:
        * Pipeline controls ADO_Build_SI_Disable_Pipeline_Edit_Permission and ADO_Release_SI_Disable_Pipeline_Edit_Permission will detect whether build and release pipelines (respectively) are editable by a wider audience (e.g., contributors).
        * Added ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Disable_OAuth_App_Access control to restrict third party application access via OAuth.
        * The ADO_AgentPool_DP_Enable_Auto_Update control will ensure that agents are configured to be auto-patched.
        * A user’s global personal access tokens (i.e. PATs that have access to all the orgs the user is a part of) can now be flagged via the ADO_User_AuthZ_Dont_Use_All_Orgs_PAT control.

    * Changes to existing controls:

        * The following connection types will now be evaluated by the scanner – (a) npm, (b) NuGet, (c) ESRP CodeSigning, (d) ESRP Malware Scanning and (e) generic.

        * The following controls will be evaluated only for Azure Resource Manager and Azure Classic service connections:

            * ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthN_Use_Cert_Auth_for_SPN
            * ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_Subscription_Access
            * ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Dont_Use_Classic_Connections

        * The ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_PAT_Or_OAuth control has been augmented to check the authorization scheme of connection as per its type.

        * Corrected the ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_BuildServAcc_Permission control to check all identities that have access to the service connection against the disallowed list.

* The following controls have been added to the baseline control set:
    * Build:
        * ADO_Build_SI_Disable_Pipeline_Edit_Permission 
    * Release:
        * ADO_Build_SI_Disable_Pipeline_Edit_Permission
    * Agent pool:
        * ADO_AgentPool_DP_Enable_Auto_Update

### Other improvements/bug fixes
* Existence of repository for storing control attestation details will be validated before asking user to provide attestation related information.
* Fixed a bug in service-based scan where previously extra resources with the same name but not associated with the service were also getting scanned.
* Different projects can now be scanned within the same session. Earlier, the policy artifacts used in the first scan were cached for the entire session and the next projects were scanned using these policies.
* Fixed pagination issues related to fetching project, build and release objects where earlier all resources of a large organization/project (with large number of pipelines) were not getting evaluated.




