# 201015 (AzSK.ADO v.1.0.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:
* The following features have been added to the core PS module:

    * Service Id-based scan: Added support to scan resources associated with a service in an organization using the     ```-ServiceId flag```. This is applicable if the organization provides a mapping of services to ADO resources (e.g., via a ‘Service Tree’ type repository of service metadata). The parameter can be used as follows:
    ```Powershell
        Get-AzSKADOSecurityStatus -OrganizationName $orgName `
                                  -ProjectNames $projectName `
                                  -ServiceId $serviceId
    ```
    * Continuous Assurance (CA) using containers: 
        * Added support to setup CA in a custom Azure resource group using just owner permissions on the RG. (Earlier we required Owner permission at subscription scope.)
        * Also added ```-RsrcTimeStamp``` flag in ```Get-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance``` cmdlet to query the health and other info about CA setup based on the timestamp it was created. This is helpful when multiple CAs are setup in the same RG.

        * For quick reference, here are the main CA commands.
            * For installation:
                ```Powershell
                    Install-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance -SubscriptionId $subId `
                                    -OrganizationName $orgName ` 
                                    -ProjectName $projName `
                                    -PATToken $securePAT 
                ```
            * For setting up Log Analytics workspace to monitor compliance:
            ```Powershell
                Install-AzSKADOMonitoringSolution
            ```
            * For updating various settings in the CA setup: 
            ```Powershell
                Update-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance
            ```
            * See instructions [here](https://aka.ms/adoscanner/CA) for more.

    * Soft protection to prevent scan of admin controls: 
        * Added a soft protection to prevent non-admin users in an organization/project from accidentally scanning organization and project-specific controls. If a non-admin user wishes to scan these controls, s/he can use a special flag ```-IncludeAdminControls``` in the command. (However, due to permission issues, all results may not be accurate.)

    * Resource Ids used by the ADO Scanner have been made consistent across various features. 

        Important: The following features may be impacted due to this change:
        * Previous control attestations will not be accepted. 
        * Duplicate bugs might get logged for current control failures (for which bugs were logged previously).
    * The default repositories that ADO Scanner looks for within a project to find org policy and for storing control attestation details have been renamed to ‘ADOScannerPolicy’ and ‘ADOScannerAttestation’ respectively.

        Important: For organizations using custom org policy, migration will be required. Note that, given the change to resource ids, past attestations will be rendered invalid.

    * Introduced a special flag ```-DetailedScan``` in the scan command which can be used to tell the scanner to query and display richer information when evaluating certain controls. This is “off by default” and helps us scan RBAC controls at scale by avoiding API calls that can be deferred to a fix stage. 
        * For e.g., detailed pipeline RBAC information and project entitlements of guest users in an organization can be obtained using this flag.
        * Detailed information is also generated when ```-ControlIds``` or ```-ControlsToAttest``` flag is used. 
        * At present, the following controls support this flag: 
            * ADO_Build_AuthZ_Grant_Min_RBAC_Access
            * ADO_Release_AuthZ_Grant_Min_RBAC_Access
            * ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Justify_Guest_Identities

### Security controls update
* The following enhancements/improvements have been made to individual security controls:

    New controls:
    * Added control to limit scope of access for build pipeline to the current project.

    Changes to existing controls:
    * Controls to detect credentials in pipeline variables will also check for secrets in variable groups used in pipeline definition.
    * Added state data in controls to detect credentials in pipeline variables/variable groups.
    * Corrected behavior of service connection control to restrict its access at resource group scope.
    * Fixed an issue in controls to detect variable groups that are editable by a wider audience (e.g., contributors) and are used in pipeline definitions.
    * Control to detect task groups that are editable by a wider audience (e.g., contributors) will now pass for YAML-based build pipelines as task groups are not supported in them.
    * Control to detect external source code repository used in build definition will treat any repository of type other than ADO ‘Git’ or ‘TFVC’ as external.
    * Controls to flag administrator groups that have non-ALT user accounts will now display counts of both non-ALT and ALT user accounts. ‘Project Collection Service Accounts’ group will be excluded from ALT-account check at organization scope. These controls will strictly fail if at least one non-ALT account is found in administrator groups.
    * Fixed a continuation token issue in the organization control to flag guest identities that was earlier reporting fewer guest accounts than the actual count.
    * Organization control to detect inactive users will display users who have never been active vs those who have been inactive for last 90 days separately.
    * Control to verify installed extensions in organization will display counts of both trusted and non-trusted extensions and the criteria for trusting a publisher.
    * Control to review ‘Project Collection Service Accounts’ in an organization will also display their count. 
    * Control to review user Personal Access Tokens (PATs) will display full-access PATs vs custom scope defined PATs separately along with their respective counts.
    
    * Changes to baseline control set:
        * ADO_Organization_Enable_Audit_Stream
        * ADO_Organization_SI_Limit_Variables_Settable_At_Queue_Time
        * ADO_Project_SI_Limit_Variables_Settable_At_Queue_Time
        * ADO_Build_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Access

### Other improvements/bug fixes
* The scan cmdlet output now also displays the identity of the user/account running the scan.
* ‘Azure Pipelines’ agent pool will be skipped from scans as it is a product default with limited scope to edit settings.
* Added ```-ProjectNames``` and ```-PolicyProject``` flags to ```Get-AzSKADOInfo``` command to specify which project to use for reading control settings from org policy.
    ```Powershell
    Get-AzSKADOInfo –InfoType ControlInfo -OrganizationName $orgName -PolicyProject $projectName 
    Get-AzSKADOInfo –InfoType ControlInfo -OrganizationName $orgName -ProjectName $projectName
    ``` 
* Scan command will display total service connections found in a project vs number of service connections that are scannable by ADO Scanner.
* Added module environment details to Log Analytics events.





