# 200916 (AzSK.ADO v.0.9.16)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:
* The following features have been added to the core PS module:
    * (Preview) Continuous Assurance (CA) using containers: In the last sprint, we had introduced an Azure-based continuous assurance scanning solution that runs ADO security scanner inside a container image in an Azure function.
        * In this sprint, we have added support for durable checkpoints to support scanning for large environments where a single job may not be sufficient for a complete scan.
        * We have also added Get-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance cmdlet to query the health and other info about the current setup.
        * The Install-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance cmdlet has been changed to support only a single project per setup.
        *   Scan frequency can be configured using the -ScanIntervalInHours parameter.
        * CA also now supports a secondary log analytics workspace.
        ```Powershell
            Install-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance -SubscriptionId $subId `
                                    -OrganizationName $orgName `
                                    -ProjectName $projName `
                                    -PATToken $securePAT 
        ```
        * To setup, you need to be Owner on the host subscription and a PAT token that has access to the scanned project.
        * You can also provide Log Analytics workspace details to monitor compliance status via ```Install-AzSKADOMonitoringSolution``` (see below).
        * ```Update-AzSKADOContinuousAssurance``` can be used to make changes to the config setup.
        * Complete setup instructions are available here.

    * Auto bug logging integration with service tree: Introduced pluggable interface (that can leverage an organization’s service tree data) to determine ‘assignee’ and ‘area path’ of bugs logged by the scanner. 

    * Log Analytics (LA) support: Added new widgets to workbook-based dashboards (which are an alternative to LA views) to support alerting and monitoring for ADO resources across the organization.
    * You can use the ```-DashboardType``` flag in ```Install-AzSKADOMonitoringSolution``` command to specify the dashboard type (view/workbook) to be created.

    * To align with the latest naming convention of ADO, we have renamed the PowerShell module, marketplace extension, cmdlets, controls, features and other policy artifacts from ‘AzureDevOps’ to ‘ADO’.
        ```Powershell
        #Install AzSK.ADO (run after each release) 
        Install-Module AzSK.ADO -Scope CurrentUser -AllowClobber -Force 

        #Import AzSK.ADO (run everytime in a fresh PS session) 
        Import-Module AzSK.ADO

        #Get the list of renamed commands
        Get-Command -Module AzSK.ADO
        ```
    * Introduced a special flag ```-PolicyProject``` in the scan command which can be used to tell the scanner which project to use for critical artifacts like org policy, attestation and auto bug logging. This is handy when you need to manage a single policy that needs to be applied across multiple projects. 
    * Added support to attest and log bugs associated with organization and project controls while using a personal access token (PAT).

### Security controls update:
* The following enhancements/improvements have been made to individual security controls:
    * Added security verification test (SVT) for Variable Group.
    * Added controls to detect task groups and variable groups that are editable by a wider audience (e.g., contributors) and are used in pipeline definitions.
    * Refined the current set of regular expressions to detect credentials in pipeline variables and variable groups. Also, added a regular expression to detect personal access token (PAT) in them.
    * Added control to check whether audit streams are enabled in the organization.
    * Controls to flag administrator groups that have non-ALT user accounts will now also display their ALT members.
* The following controls have been added to the baseline control set:
    * Build:
        * ADO_Build_SI_Disable_Task_Group_Edit_Permission
        * ADO_Build_SI_Disable_Variable_Group_Edit_Permission
    * Release:
        * ADO_Release_SI_Disable_Task_Group_Edit_Permission
        * ADO_Release_SI_Disable_Variable_Group_Edit_Permission
    * Variable Group:
        * ADO_VariableGroup_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access
        * ADO_VariableGroup_AuthZ_Disable_Inherited_Permissions
        * ADO_VariableGroup_DP_No_PlainText_Secrets_In_Variables

### Other improvements/bug fixes:
* Added support to input personal access token (PAT) required for scan via a UI prompt. This can be leveraged using the flag -PromptForPAT in scan command.
* Optimized the compilation of regular expression set used for detecting credentials in pipelines so that they will be compiled just once per session.
* Certain pipeline environment variables (e.g., system.debug, BuildConfiguration, Domain etc.) will be exempted from detecting credentials.
* Added support to scan and exclude controls based on tags using the -FilterTags and -ExcludeTags flags, respectively.
* Fixed an issue in scanning of release pipelines where previously multiple pipelines were scanned which included the name of the target release pipeline as a substring.
* Performance optimizations for downloading policy files from org policy server and pushing scan events to backend policy server.
* Fixed the resource link for agent pools in the summary report.


 

