# 210115 (AzSK.ADO v.1.3.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:

* Continuous Assurance (CA) using Azure Functions: 

    * Added support to trigger scan after 20 minutes whenever scan frequency is configured using the ```-ScanIntervalInHours``` parameter while installing/updating the CA setup.

* Auto bug logging:

    * Added an alternate mechanism to support ability to check if a bug has been previously logged for a control failure. This uses an Azure Table in the CA storage account for remembering previously logged bugs and their states. This provides an alternative to the earlier approach which was based on ADO tags.

* Log Analytics (LA) support: Augmented all controls to capture important metrics around them using the ‘Additional info’ field in the LA events – for e.g., number of admins in the org/project, visibility of project, last known usage of various ADO objects, number of task/variable groups used in pipelines and editable by wider audience etc.

* Marketplace extension: ADO Security Scanner [marketplace extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=azsdktm.ADOSecurityScanner) has been published under ‘Microsoft’ as the publisher name.

### Security controls updates

* New controls: 

    * Added ADO_Organization_AuthN_Disable_SSH_Access control to restrict access to Git repos via SSH authentication.

    * The ADO_Build_DP_Do_Not_Use_Forked_Repo_With_Self_Hosted_Agent control checks for pipelines that build code from forked public repos on self-hosted agents.

    * Added ADO_AgentPool_DP_No_Secrets_In_Capabilities control to flag secrets stored as plain text in user-defined capabilities of agent pools.

    * The ADO_Build_DP_Disable_CI_On_External_Sources control helps prevent continuous integration and scheduled builds of untrusted code from external repos.

    * The ADO_Build_DP_Dont_Make_Secrets_Available_To_Forked_Builds control will restrict exposure of pipeline secrets to builds of forked repos.

    * Added the below controls to check security configurations/permissions on repos in a project:
        * ADO_Project_SI_Review_Author_Email_Validation_Policy enables author email validation to restrict commits from untrusted users.
        * ADO_Project_DP_Inactive_Repos reports stale repos (no commits over a long period of time).
        * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Disable_Inherited_Permissions disables inheritance of project level permissions on individual repos.
        * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Repo_Grant_Min_RBAC_Access lists all users/groups that have access to repos.

    * The ADO_Project_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access_To_Secure_Files control restricts access of secure files to all pipelines in the project

    * Deployment environments that are accessible to all pipelines can now be flagged via the ADO_Project_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access_To_Environment control.

    * The ADO_Project_AuthZ_Restrict_Feed_Permissions control will surface Azure artifacts that permit broad pool of users to upload packages to feeds.

    * A user’s personal access tokens that have critical permissions like manage pipelines on the organization can now be flagged via the ADO_User_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_Critical_Permissions_To_PAT control.

    * Requested extensions in the organization can be listed for admin review via the ADO_Organization_SI_Review_Requested_Extensions control.

* Changes to existing controls:

    * The ADO_Release_DP_Review_Inactive_Release control will also provide information about the build/other artifacts associated with the release pipeline.

    * ADO_Build_DP_Review_Inactive_Build and ADO_Release_DP_Review_Inactive_Release controls will not fail for pipelines that have been recently created but never queued/triggered.

    * Fixed an issue in the ADO_AgentPool_DP_Enable_Auto_Update control which was earlier throwing exception when auto-update information for agent pools was not available.

    * Resolved a bug in the ADO_Release_DP_No_PlainText_Secrets_In_Definition control to gracefully handle the case when one or more variable groups (used in the release pipeline) is not accessible to the scanner.

    * The ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Grant_Min_RBAC_Access control has been automated to list all users/groups that have access to service connection.

    * ADO_AgentPool_AuthZ_Project_Dont_Grant_All_Pipeline_Access has been renamed to ADO_AgentPool_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access.

* The following controls have been added to the baseline control set. A subset of these will be added to CSEO baseline soon.
    * Organization:
        * ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Disable_OAuth_App_Access
        * ADO_Organization_AuthN_Disable_SSH_Access 
    * Project:
        *	ADO_Project_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access_To_Secure_Files
        * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Restrict_Feed_Permissions
        * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Disable_Inherited_Permissions
    * Build:
        * ADO_Build_SI_Review_External_Sources
        * ADO_Build_DP_Dont_Make_Secrets_Available_To_Forked_Builds
        * ADO_Build_DP_Review_Inactive_Build
    * Release:
        * ADO_Release_DP_Review_Inactive_Release
    * Service Connection:
        * ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_BuildServAcc_Permission
    * Agent pool:
        * ADO_AgentPool_DP_Enable_Auto_Update
        * ADO_AgentPool_DP_No_Secrets_In_Capabilities

### Other improvements/bug fixes
* N/A.






