# 210715 (AzSK.ADO v.1.9.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:
* Support for ‘path’ based scans:
    * To support scans of ‘compliant folder’ based projects (where governed build/release configs are       constrained to specific paths), we have added support for path-based scanning for builds and releases.       
    * This can be used via the ```-BuildsFolderPath``` and ```-ReleasesFolderPath switches``` as shown below:
        
        ```PowerShell
        gads –oz $org -pn $proj –bn *  –BuildsFolderPath $folderpath
        
        gads –oz $org –pn $proj –rn *  –ReleasesFolderPath $folderpath
        ``` 
* Optimizing checkpointed scans: 
    * Added a switch ```-DoNotRefetchResources``` (or -dnrr) to request not re-fetching resources when continuation of a checkpointed scan (i.e., when the -upc switch is used).
    * This facilitates running batch scans efficiently by speeding up scans of subsequent batches after the initial one.

* Automated control fixes (preview): 
    * Added a switch ```-PrepareForFix``` which will create a local backup of current state of a resource     configuration/settings.
        ```PowerShell
        gads - oz $org -pn $proj  -Feednames * -cid 'ADO_Feed_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access' -upc    -PrepareForControlFix
        ```	
    * Thereafter, a new command, 
       ```PowerShell 
        Set-AzSKADOSecurityStatus
       ```
       can be used to fix the control for which a ‘state backup’ has been generated via the previous command.
        ```PowerShell
        Set-AzSKADOSecurityStatus -oz $org -pn $proj -cid 'ADO_Feed_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access'
        ```
    * Currently, this is available for the ```ADO_Feed_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access control```.
    * The, ```-UndoFix switch``` can be used to revert the changes for one or more resources:
        ```PowerShell
        Set-AzSKADOSecurityStatus -oz $org -pn $proj -cid ‘ADO_Feed_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access’ -rns $rsrcNames -UndoFix
        ```


### Security controls updates
* New controls:
   The following new controls have been added in this release:
   * ```ADO_Build_AuthZ_Restrict_Access_To_OAuth_Token_For_Agent_Jobs```: Do not allow excessive permissions on OAuth access token to agent jobs in a build pipeline.
   * ```ADO_Release_AuthZ_Restrict_Access_To_OAuth_Token_For_Agent_Jobs```: Do not allow excessive permissions on OAuth access token to agent jobs in a release pipeline.
   * ```ADO_VariableGroup_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access_On_VG_With_Secrets```: Broader groups (contributors, project valid users, etc.) should not have user/administrator privileges on variable group which contains secrets.
   * ```ADO_Repository_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access```: Do not make repository accessible to all pipelines.
   * ```ADO_SecureFile_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access```: Do not allow secure file to have excessive permissions for a broad group of users.
   * ```ADO_Environment_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access```: Do not make environment accessible to all pipelines.
   * ```ADO_Environment_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access```: Do not allow environment to have excessive permissions for a broad group of users.

* Changes to existing controls:
   * ```ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Review_Project_Collection_Service_Accounts```control now extracts all users from nested groups in Project Collection Service Accounts.
   * ```Disabled ADO_Project_AuthZ_Disable_Repo_Inherited_Permissions```control for all resource types as most projects appear to be reliant on permission inheritance. (We will introduce an org level settings to choose to reenable this in the next sprint.)
   * Moved from project scope to individual control ```ADO_Project_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access_To_Environment```  
* Control Name Changes:
    * The following control ids were changed to ensure consistent control names across different resource types for similar controls:

        |Old Control id |New Control Id|
        |---------------|--------------|
        |ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Non_Release_Pipeline_Access|                               ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Non_Release_Pipeline_Scope|ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Release_Pipeline_Access|	ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Release_Pipeline_Scope|
        ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Access_To_Referenced_Repos|	ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Scope_To_Referenced_Repos|
        ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Release_Pipeline_Access|ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Release_Pipeline_Scope|ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Access_To_Referenced_Repos|	ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Scope_To_Referenced_Repos|
        ADO_Project_AuthZ_Limit_Non_Release_Pipeline_Access|ADO_Project_AuthZ_Limit_Non_Release_Pipeline_Scope|
        ADO_Project_AuthZ_Limit_Release_Pipeline_Access|ADO_Project_AuthZ_Limit_Release_Pipeline_Scope|
        ADO_Project_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Access_To_Referenced_Repos|ADO_Project_AuthZ_Limit_Pipeline_Scope_To_Referenced_Repos|
        ADO_Build_SI_Limit_Task_Group_Edit_Permission|ADO_Build_SI_Restrict_Task_Group_Edit_Permission|
        ADO_Release_SI_Limit_Task_Group_Edit_Permission|ADO_Release_SI_Restrict_Task_Group_Edit_Permission|
        ADO_Project_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access_Environment|	ADO_Environment_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_All_Pipelines_Access|
        ADO_Feed_AuthZ_Restrict_Permissions|ADO_Feed_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access|


### Other Improvements/Bug fixes
* Enabled support for the ```-ExcludeControlIds``` switch which can be used in conjunction with other switches such as ```-ubc``` or ```-msw``` to scan all controls except the exclusions.
* Removed the switch ```-UseGraphAccess``` as we have made Graph-based evaluation as the default.
* Extended the ```-detailedScan``` switch to support deep scans of shared and auto-Injected extensions in the same vein as the installed extensions control.
* Enabled bug logging for CommonSVT controls (Repository, Environment, Feed, Secure File) in preparation for subsequent compliance drive waves.
* Bug log summary is sent to LA and closed bugs summary has been added to bug log summary
* Get ```-AzSKADOServiceMapping``` command now supports ```-pattoken```,```-pattokenurl``` and ```-promptforpat``` parameters.
* Perf improvements in scan preparation stage by fetching and processing the resources in batches.
* Nested groups resolution performance improvements by caching the results of  resolved groups.
* Add filters for MSW controls, projects, and control ids in workbook.






