# 210215 (AzSK.ADO v.1.4.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:

* Auto bug logging: Implemented the following enhancements for security compliance drive readiness:
    * Added support to control bug logging via a backend customizable list of controls specified via org policy. 
    * Added support to control whether to log bugs for: (a) stale/inactive ADO resources and (b) resources not mapped to any service in the org inventory.
    * Added support to update resource inventory details (service info, area path, service owner etc.) in the already logged ADO Scanner bugs. Previously, these details were never updated after the bug was logged.

* ADO extension security/hygiene: The ADO_Organization_SI_Review_Installed_Extensions control now supports a consolidated CSV view of all the additional info as guidance/support to organization admins for security evaluation and cleanup of installed extensions. 
    * The additional info covers the following: list of extensions that (a) have not been updated by publishers for more than 2 years, (b) have sensitive access permissions, (c) are not production ready/in preview, (d) are developed by top publishers in marketplace, and (e) have private visibility. 
    * ```[orgName]_ExtensionInfo.csv``` (present in the scan report folder) contains detailed and consolidated info about installed extensions.
        ```Powershell
        gads -oz $org -ControlIds 'ADO_Organization_SI_Review_Installed_Extensions' -IncludeAdminControls -DetailedScan
        ```
* Log Analytics (LA) support: Added support to send info whether a resource is active/stale (unused over a specific period) using the ‘IsResourceActive’ field in the LA events.

* Added support to list group membership and permission details (at org/project scope) of a user via the ```Get-AzSKADOInfo ```command using the  ```UserInfo``` type.
    ```Powershell
    Get-AzSKADOInfo -OrganizationName $orgName -ProjectName $projName –InfoType UserInfo
    ```
* Added capability to tell the scanner which branch of the org policy repo to use for scan. This will be useful for simulating org policy endpoints for dev-test purpose.
    ```Powershell
    Set-AzSKADOPolicySettings -BranchId ‘<branch name>’
    ```

### Security controls updates

* Changes to existing controls:

    * Fixed a bug in controls ADO_Organization_AuthN_Use_ALT_Accounts_For_Admin and ADO_Project_AuthN_Use_ALT_Accounts_For_Admin which were previously throwing exception whenever member admin groups were empty. 

    * The below pipeline editability controls have been renamed to better represent their rationale:
        * Build controls to detect task groups and variable groups that are editable by a wider audience (e.g., contributors) and are used in pipeline definitions have been renamed to ADO_Build_SI_Limit_Task_Group_Edit_Permission and ADO_Build_SI_Limit_Variable_Group_Edit_Permission respectively.

        * Release controls to detect task groups and variable groups that are editable by a wider audience and are used in pipeline definitions have been renamed to ADO_Release_SI_Limit_Task_Group_Edit_Permission and ADO_Release_SI_Limit_Variable_Group_Edit_Permission respectively.

        * Controls to detect pipelines that are editable by a wider audience have been renamed to ADO_Build_SI_Limit_Pipeline_Edit_Permission and ADO_Release_SI_Limit_Pipeline_Edit_Permission respectively.

Other improvements/bug fixes
* Added support to enable/disable anonymous usage telemetry for local, CA and CICD scans.
* Renamed command parameter to scan all the resources in the org (previously ```–ScanAllArtifacts```) to ```-ScanAllResources```.
* Different projects can now be queried for org policy info (using the ```Get-AzSKADOInfo``` command) within the same session. Earlier, the policy artifacts used in the first command execution were cached for the entire session.



