# 210816 (AzSK.ADO v.1.10.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:
* Automated bulk remediation extended for:  
    * ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Revoke_Admin_Access_for_Guest_Users
    * ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Revoke_Admin_Access_for_Inactive_Users
    * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Revoke_Admin_Access_for_Guest_Users
    * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Revoke_Admin_Access_for_Inactive_Users
    * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access_on_Repo
    * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access_on_Releases
    *  ADO_Project_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access_on_SecureFile
    * ADO_SecureFile_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access
    * ADO_VariableGroup_AuthZ_Restrict_Broader_Group_Access_On_VG_With_Secrets
    * ADO_Build_SI_Dont_Use_Broadly_Editable_Task_Group
    * ADO_Release_SI_Dont_Use_Broadly_Editable_Task_Group

*  [Preview]ADOScanner module support in PowerShell 7.

 

### Security controls updates
* New controls:
   The following new control have been added in this release:
   * ```ADO_Repository_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_BuildSvc_Permission_On_Branch```: Do not grant build service groups excessive permissions on repository branches


* Changes to existing controls :
   * ```ADO_Feed_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_BuildSvcAcct_Permission ```
   * ```ADO_VariableGroup_DP_No_PlainText_Secrets_In_Variables```
   * ```ADO_AgentPool_DP_No_Secrets_In_Capabilities```
   * ```ADO_Repository_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_BuildSvcAcct_Permissio```
   * ```ADO_ServiceConnection_SI_Dont_Share_Across_Projects ```
   * ```ADO_AgentPool_AuthZ_Dont_Enable_Auto_Provisioning ```

### Other Improvements/Bug fixes
* CA setup can now delete logs older than 30 days. This number can be overwritten in application settings of the CA function app by defining the number in ```DeleteLogsOlderThanDays```. This feature can be disabled by setting ```DisableLogsCleanup``` environment variable to False.
* CSV report generated now provides an "AdditionalInfo" column with details specific to resource getting scanned
* The ```Get-AzSKADOSecurityStatusBatchMode``` (gadsbm) command now supports scanning pipelines from multiple projects in batch mode.
* In ```-IncrementalScan``` feature fixed an issue with ```-IncrementalDate``` switch. The switch now supports time of the day along with date in CA mode to scan pipelines modified after the specified time only.
* ```IncrementalScan``` now supports partial commits as well. In case of a partial scan, pipelines that are yet to be scanned from previous checkpoints will be scanned first before attempting to enter into incremental mode.
* ```IncrementalScan``` now scans those pipelines as well whose RBAC permissions have been changed. 
* The GADS command now supports scanning of any combination of resources in addition to scanning all artifacts. Using the resource type ``` -rtn Build_Release_SvcConn_AgentPool_VarGroup_User_CommonSVTResources```, you can specify the resource names to be scanned in any combination.
* Fixed the issue with ```–DoNotRefetchResources``` when multiple projects are scanned.
* Performance improvements has been done for pre scan processing which reduces the significant amount of time in fetching and generating the SVT's before starting the scan
* GADI Inventory now supports common SVT controls
* Disabled attestation error message in case if attestation is not enabled for org controls.
* Scan report folder name will come with UBC/UPC/TAG/SVCBasedScan if any of these used in GADS command.
* Count of Agent pools displayed via ```GADI -infotype OrganizationInfo -ProjectNames $projName``` will not include legacy agent pools.







