# 210415 (AzSK.ADO v.1.6.0)

## Feature Updates

### ADO Security Scanner PowerShell Module:
* [Preview] OAuth app-based Continuous Assurance (CA) using Azure Functions: 
    * Continuing our work from last sprint to scan ADO resources using an OAuth app for continuous assurance, we switched to the appropriate APIs accessible using read-only OAuth scopes. 
    * This is currently in preview. Detailed instructions are available [here](https://aka.ms/adoscanner/ca/oauth).

* [Preview] Approved exception support in control attestation: 
    * Added capability to configure list of controls for which “GRC-approved” exceptions are enforced. 
    * Added support to invalidate previous non-GRC-approved attestations for such controls.
    
* Auto bug logging improvements: 
    * Bug logging for multiple projects in an org can now be carried out using a common location to store inventory mappings of their respective resources.
    * Added support to auto-update fields (description, remediation steps, severity, title, area path etc.) of already logged bugs. This can be leveraged by admins to ‘patch’ active bugs with the latest security and compliance guidance as decided in the org. 
    * Added resource owner details in bug description. 

### Security controls updates
* New controls:
    * The ```ADO_AgentPool_AuthZ_Review_Broader_Group_Access``` control checks whether wider groups (like project valid users, contributors etc.) have user/admin privileges on critical agent pools.
    * The ```ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Review_Broader_Group_Access``` control checks whether wider groups (like project valid users, contributors etc.) have user/admin privileges on critical service connections.

* Changes to existing controls:
    * Added capability to distinguish between human and service accounts in admin roles and count only the ‘human’ accounts for the controls below:
        * ADO_Organization_BCDR_Min_Admin_Count
        * ADO_Organization_AuthZ_Limit_Admin_Count
        * ADO_Project_BCDR_Min_Admin_Count
        * ADO_Project_AuthZ_Limit_Admin_Count

    Note: Correct evaluation of these controls requires graph access.

    * Fixed an issue in controls ```ADO_Build_SI_Limit_Variable_Group_Edit_Permission``` and ```ADO_Build_SI_Limit_Variable_Group_Edit_Permission``` which were getting stalled in scenarios where pipeline definitions were referencing deleted variable groups.
    * Controls ```ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Dont_Grant_Subscription_Access``` and ```ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_PAT_Or_OAuth``` have been renamed to ```ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthZ_Grant_Least_Privilege_Access``` and ```ADO_ServiceConnection_AuthN_Use_Secure_Auth_Method``` respectively to better represent the intent of underlying security check.
    * The ```ADO_Project_AuthZ_Disable_Inherited_Permissions``` control has been renamed to ```ADO_Project_AuthZ_Disable_Repo_Inherited_Permissions```.

### Other improvements/bug fixes
* Variable groups to be scanned can now be specified in ADO Scanner marketplace [extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=azsdktm.ADOSecurityScanner) UI. 
* Location to save scan reports can now be customized using ```Set-AzSKADOUserPreference``` command.
* Added support to send resource link and thrown exceptions using the ‘ResourceLink’ and ‘Exception’ fields in LA events, respectively.
* Resolved an issue where any control evaluation failure for a resource would stall sending subsequent control telemetry to LA till completion of the scan. 


